# sbe_ctdproc
A set of scripts to setup directories and scripts to do some basic CTD processing under Windows or *nix systems using wine.
This has successfully been tested on Windows linux and OSX.

Contents
========
Included are two scripts to initialize a ctd processing environment and a folder with<br>
raw data files for station 004 of a Western Boundry Time Series(WBTS) cruise<br>
carried out in May of 2017.<br>

-init_ctd_proc       A BASH script.<br>
-init_ctd_proc.bat   A BATCH script<br>


raw_data<br>

-ab1705_004.bl         Bottle trip file<br>
-ab1705_004.hdr        Header file<br>
-ab1705_004.hex        Raw hex data file<br>
-ab1705_004.mrk        Markscan file<br>
-AB1705_004.XMLCON     Configuration file<br>



Requirements
============

The SeaBird processing software installed in one of the default locations.<br>


If using wine.<br>
$HOME/.wine/drive_c/Program Files (x86)/Sea-Bird<br>
$HOME/user/.wine/drive_c/Program Files/Sea-Bird<br>

If using Windows<br>
C:\Program Files (x86)\Sea-Bird<br>
C:\Program Files\Sea-Bird<br>

These scripts were written to process files that were created with the version of SeaSave that creates<br>
configuration files with the XMLCON extension. I think SeaBird Began using the XMLCON file with version 7.<br>
The scripts also require that the raw data files be created with the following file naming convention.<br>

CRUISE_ID_nnn<br>

CRUISE_ID is the cruise designation and nnn is the three digit station number. The two must be seperated by an underscore.<br> 

Obviously all this can be modified to suite your needs, so please do so.<br>
You can  modify the actual initilization script so that all cruises you initialize have your modified parameters or you<r>
can modify the config and process_ctd files after initializing a cruise.<br>
   




Example
=======

In this example we'll prepare an environment to process CTD station 004 from cruise AB1705.<br>

1) Open a terminal and navigate to the install scripts.<br>
You should see two files.<br>
-init_ctd_proc<br>
-init_ctd_proc.bat<br>
   
On linux/OSX<br>
chmod +x ./init_ctd_proc<br>
./init_ctd_proc AB1705 $HOME/data<br>
   
This will install the processing script with it's configuration file and PSA files.<br>
Copy the included raw data files to $HOME/data/ctd_proc/raw_data and navigate to <br>
   
$HOME/ctd_proc/batch_files using the terminal.<br>
   
to process station 004 type<br>
./process_ctd 004<br>
   
The SBEBatch should run and deposit the processed files in<br>
   
$HOME/ctd_proc/1db/proc_data<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;-AB1705_004.cnv<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;-AB1705_004.ros<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;-dAB1705_004.cnv<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;-uAB1705_004.cnv<br>
   
$HOME/ctd_proc/1hz/proc_data<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;-AB1705_004.cnv<br>
  
On Windows<br>

1) Open a terminal and navigate to the install scripts.<br>
You should see two files.<br>
-init_ctd_proc<br>
-init_ctd_proc.bat<br>

init_ctd_proc AB1705 c:\users\Public\Documents\data

This will install the processing script with it's configuration file and PSA files.<br>
Copy the included raw data files to c:\users\Public\Documents\data\ctd_proc\raw_data and navigate to <br>

c:\users\Public\Documents\ctd_proc\batch_files using the terminal.<br>
   
to process station 004 type<br>
process_ctd 004<br>

The SBEBatch should run and deposit the processed files in<br>
   
c:\users\Public\Documents\ctd_proc\1db\proc_data<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;-AB1705_004.cnv<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;-AB1705_004.ros<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;-dAB1705_004.cnv<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;-uAB1705_004.cnv<br>
   
c:\users\Public\Documents\ctd_proc\1hz\proc_data<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;-AB1705_004.cnv<br>

Generating PSA files.
=====================

The two initialization scripts init_ctd_proc and init_ctd_proc.bat,<br>
generate PSA files for 1hz and 1db processing. To build these two scripts,<br>
PSA files were encoded into the scripts by surrounding the PSA data<br>
with shell commands, arguments and variables.<br>

If you want to use PSA files other than the ones generated by the script,<br>
you could overwrite the PSA files that are created after running the init_ctd_proc scripts<br>
or you could replace the code inside the init_ctd_proc scripts.<br>


There are two scripts included that can help you do this.<br>
Unfortunately these conversion scripts only work under BASH so you can't<br>
use them in a windows CMD terminal. I guess if you have Windows 10 you could<br>
enable WSL and install Ubuntu from the windows store but I have not<br>
tested that.<br>


These scripts would be very difficult for me to write as Batch scripts.<br>


-psa_1db_2nix   Generates the 1db code for both windows Batch and BASH<br>
-psa_1hz_2nix   Generates the 1hz code for both windows Batch and BASH<br>

Make the scripts executable.<br>

chmod +x psa_1db_2nix<br>
chmod +x psa_1hz_2nix<br>

Run the scripts<br>

./psa_1db_2nix path_2_1db_PSA_Files<br>
./psa_1db_2nix path_2_1hz_PSA_Files<br>

Four files will be generated.<br>

copy and paste the contents of nix_psa_1db.txt into init_ctd_proc<br>
copy and paste the contents of win_psa_1db.txt into init_ctd_proc.bat<br>

copy and paste the contents of nix_psa_1hz.txt into init_ctd_proc<br>
copy and paste the contents of win_psa_1hz.txt into init_ctd_proc.bat<br>

Now you can run the init_ctd_proc scripts with the new PSA files.<br>



















